Colab Document: [https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1k2jgaXKioNX-TmLGMYiGmFp-LrTubKeN?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1k2jgaXKioNX-TmLGMYiGmFp-LrTubKeN?usp=sharing&authuser=1)

# Organization background
- As part of its mission to certify online content traffic figures, the ACPM certifies tools for measuring digital media traffic.
- **Intended to guarantee** that the measurement is based on a counting method that complies with internationally-applied standards (IFABC).
- verifies that the technique used to collect and count the data does not alter the quality and accuracy of the measurement.
- aims to provide Digital players with a general overview of the activity of Measurement Tools, to promote the consistency of the results they produce, and to guarantee maximum comparability in the processing that can be carried out.
- The Labeling of Measuring Tools is an essential step in the whole process since only traffic figures from **Labeled** Measuring Tools can be checked for certification

# Main Objective
- To provide Digital players with a general overview of the activity of Measurement Tools
- To promote the consistency of the results they produce.
- To guarantee maximum comparability in the processing that can be carried out.

# Labeling Process
- Audit - verify how it measures visitors and if it complies with the criteria set out in the Specifications.
- Test - test the tools on acpm.fr and use data to validate that the data meet the certification criteria and ensure the quality of measurement tools. 
- After that, measurement tool can use the visual certificates.
- But the medias that use the certified measurement tool cannot use it. 

# Types of Perimeters
- **Fixed website (SWF)** - content accessible only by an "http" type request vis a web browser. 
- **mobile website (SWM)**
- **contents distributed (CD)** - editorial content produced and branded by the publisher but distributed outside its digital media and/or not on its own domain names.

# Definitions
- **Visits:** "The act of consulting one or more pages of one or more websites by a connected device. If no new pages are accessed on this website within a period exceeding 30 minutes, the visit is deemed to have ended".
- **Visitor / Unique navigator**: "Unique French and foreign navigator, without distinction of place of connection, determined by a deduplicating visitor identifier, deduplicated over the period".
- **Page views:** "Complete downloading of a page on the connected computer by a visitor identified in the context of a Visit".

# Visitors
- Track same visitor for the same perimeters.
- But cannot track visitors across different perimeters.

# Exchange Workflow with Publishers, Measurement tools and ACPM (Important)
- The publishers declare DSH to ACPM.
- ACPM manually validate the DSH.
- ACPM transmits to the measurement tool the information required to label the declared perimeters. 
- Measurement tools send daily and weekly DSF to the ACPM.
- Measurement tools also send log files (all events generated by all users.) **on daily basis.**
- **ACPM check on** 
	- **Receipt of DSF and log files**
	- **Consistency of metrics declared using DFS with those calculated by log analysis.**
	- **Statistics on the metrics declared, enabling us to identify significant variations in the volume or pattern of use of the perimeters monitored.**
	- **The presence of abnormal behavior in log files (invalid non-human traffic, anarchic behavior, suspicious origin).**
- ACPM can ask justifications or corrections if there are suspected anomalies. 
- Then, the measurement tool may deliver an updated version of the files to ACPM again. 
- If a publication period is closed (i.e., after publication of the figures by the ACPM). Any file delivery concerning this period will be rejected.

# ACPM Automatic Alert Mechanism
- ACPM will send alert automatically. 

# Our Task

- Identify anomalies
- Create alerts (need technical documents)
- generate reasoning for traffics

# Data
- Json/XML
	- 1day for one day for each parameters (each param is mobile website or other). for example, 1M visitors for website in December 12th. 
- CSV files
	- all data that used to calculate the figures. 
	- very big. average size for 1 day is 82GB of data in gzip format.
- two format log files. Both are csv. 
	- desktop/mobile websites
	- android app
- Look up table represent mapping between which log file belongs to which parameter. included some metadata such as brand (to do cross analysis between family under same brand.) 
- how to access?
	- use archive - DSF

Terminologies
- A param can be a website, a mobile app or a group of websites.

Naming convention

- five measurement tools
- less than 1000 websites (params)
- Three files
	- PV File - (page view) include stats like
		- date measured
- VH - Weekly data (accumulate)
- For some params are one month (in xml)
- VQ 


Website Log file Description
- Timestamp
- ID ?
- Anonymized IP - lose accuracy for IP
- web domain 
- unique visitor ID
	- always the same for the same visitor inside this param for the whole week
	- if same visitor go to another website, that ID will be different. 
- Visit ID
	- defined by ACPM
	- when visitor go to website, the visit start. 
	- when inactive for example 30 min, it's new visit. If he comes back over 30 min, it's a new visit.
- URL
- Monthly figure does not exist
- Visitor ID will not changed for one whole week. 

- Application Logs
	- App name
	- Visitor ID
	- URL when it use web view
	- country code of IP
	- They have
		- daily
		- weekly
		- monthly
	- same visitor ID for whole month

Notes:
- For big picture statistics, if you find two different params with same domain, ignore one side.

# Existing Alerts

Great to have
- Data files: three sources.
- Technical documents for data and alerts. 

# Laurent's Notes

## Sources
- raw data : CSV inside S3-compatible OVH Storage
- DSF Declaration Systematique de Fréquentation : GZIP manually sent by Bertrand
- mapping between MEDIA ID and MEDIA NAME + manifests for all MEDIA ID : extract from databases manually sent by Bertrand : Dump

## Privacy of DATA
Data already sanitized, must respect CNIL rules

## Measurement tools : 5 actives, less than a thousand websites

## Measure files

```
YYYYMMDD_<measure-tool-ID>_<perimeter-ID>.json
```


- PV : Page Vues
- V : visites
- VQ : visiteurs Quotidien
- VH : visiteurs Hebdo --> One only, or sometimes one per day, erasing previous ones until ends of week
- VM : visiteurs Mensuels

A perimeter could be a website, a mobile application, a group of websites (example : "France television")

## Limitation

Be careful about website already contained insite a group of websites, example "France television".


Documentation about DSF format sent by Bertrand

## Raw log files

### Desktop/website Raw log file (CSV format, "|" separator file)

#### Format
- date, timezone Paris, format "2025:12:01:00:00:00"
- website ID, example "328"
- IP of visitor, sanitized (last replaced by 0), example "179.245.236.0"
- domain, example "www.lequipe.fr"
- Visitor ID
- Visite ID
- Full visited URL
- User-Agent
- Country Code, before anonymising the IP, or "Anithing bu FRANCE" ("XX")
#### Frequency
Daily and weekly figures

### Mobile Application Raw log file (CSV format, "|" separator file)
#### Format
- timestamp, timezone Paris, format "2025:12:01:00:00:00"
- Mobile app ID
- Visitor or Terminal ID
- uri page if existing
- Mobile agent
- IP of visitor, sanitized (last replaced by 0), example "179.245.236.0"
- Country Code, before anonymising the IP, or "Anithing bu FRANCE" ("XX")
#### Frequency
Daily and weekly and monthly figures



"Rolling averrage"

--> Comportement anormal par rapport à la moyenne (rapidité des visites, anomalie dans le traffic, )


## New Info (Audit)

